[Docs] Add clarification about property precedence (#1918)
App-vNext/Polly: docs/strategies/retry.md

## Calculation of the next delay

If the `ShouldHandle` predicate returns `true` and the next attempt number is not greater than `MaxRetryAttempts` then the retry strategy calculates the next delay.

There are many properties that may contribute to this calculation:

- `BackoffType`: Specifies which calculation algorithm should run.
- `Delay`: If only this property is specified then it will be used as-is. If others are also specified then this will be used as a *base delay*.
- `DelayGenerator`: If specified, will override other property-based calculations, **except** if it returns a negative `TimeSpan`, in which case the other property-based calculations are used.
- `MaxDelay`: If specified, caps the delay if the calculated delay is greater than this value, **except** if `DelayGenerator` is used, where no capping is applied.
- `UseJitter`: If enabled, then adds a random value between between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`, **except** if `BackoffType` is `Exponential`, where a bit more complex jitter calculation is used.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The summarized description below is an implementation detail. It may change in the future without notice.

> The `BackoffType` property's data type is the [`DelayBackOffType`](xref:Polly.DelayBackOffType) enumeration. This primarily controls how the calculation is done.

Author: @martincostello , @martintmk 

Do you have any idea why this link is broken?
`[`DelayBackOffType`](xref:Polly.DelayBackOffType)`

I got this warning when I run docfx locally:
> Polly/docs/strategies/retry.md: warning UidNotFound: 1 invalid cross reference(s) "Polly.DelayBackOffType".

Reviewer: Should be `Polly.DelayBackoffType` (lower-case o)

| `OnRetry`          | `null`                                                                     | Action executed when retry occurs.                                                       |
| `MaxDelay`         | `null`                                                                     | Caps the calculated retry delay to a specified maximum duration.                         |

## Calculation of the next delay

If the `ShouldHandle` predicate returns `true` and the next attempt number is not greater than `MaxRetryAttempts` then the retry strategy calculates the next delay.

There are many properties that may contribute to this calculation:

- `BackoffType`: It specifies which calculation algorithm should run.
- `Delay`: If only this one is specified then it will be used as is. If others are defined as well then this will be used as a *base delay*.

> - `DelayGenerator`: If specified then it will overwrite other properties based calculation. **Except** if it returns a negative `TimeSpan` where the other properties based calculation is used.

Reviewer: Also, `null` can be also returned. In that case the calculated delay is used too:

https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/9f25d9d74674483298cd167cf8ff6e9d9026bf20/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience/Polly/HttpRetryStrategyOptions.cs#L58

> - `MaxDelay`: If specified then it caps the delay if the calculated one is greater than this value. **Except** if `DelayGenerator` is used where no capping is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MaxDelay`: If specified then it caps the delay if the calculated one is greater than this value. **Except** if `DelayGenerator` is used where no capping is applied.
```

Just wondering, shall we apply the capping to values produced by generator too?

Author: I would say yes. That was my intuition before I checked the implementation. But let's deal with that in a separate PR if you don't mind.

Reviewer: My intuition says yes too, the less special cases, the better.

Reviewer 2: I would agree we should apply it - `Retry-After` isn't necessarily authoritative and the user may wish to try earlier by overriding. If we do that we should make it clear in the documentation.

Author: It is a concision decision by the strategy creator that (s)he sets the `MaxDelay`. If it is set then the strategy should cap the value regardless how it is calculated/retrieved IMHO.

> - `UseJitter`: If enabled then it adds a random value between between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`. **Except** if `BackoffType` is set to `Exponential` where jitter is always used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `UseJitter`: If enabled then it adds a random value between between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`. 
```

Are you sure this is true? Because the exponential delays are different if `UseJitter` is used. Without it the output is not randomized.

https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/blob/f40fa295a872465c1724abcc52c6ae1f77a6d0a2/src/Polly.Core/Retry/RetryHelper.cs#L69

Author: Sorry, may bad. You are right.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The summarized description below is an implementation detail. It may change in the future without notice.

The `BackoffType` property's data type is the [`DelayBackOffType`](xref:Polly.DelayBackOffType) enumeration. This primarily controls how the calculation is done.

> ### Constant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example calculation

Bellow is the example calculation for `Constant` delay type. It showcases how the delay is calculated, the calculation is almost identical for the other (`Linear`, `Exponential`) backoff types.
```

Or something in that sense.

| `OnRetry`          | `null`                                                                     | Action executed when retry occurs.                                                       |
| `MaxDelay`         | `null`                                                                     | Caps the calculated retry delay to a specified maximum duration.                         |

## Calculation of the next delay

If the `ShouldHandle` predicate returns `true` and the next attempt number is not greater than `MaxRetryAttempts` then the retry strategy calculates the next delay.

> There are many properties that are somehow contribute to this calculation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many properties that may contribute to this calculation:
```

- `Delay`
- `DelayGenerator`
- `MaxDelay`
- `UseJitter`
- `BackoffType`

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > The below described algorithm is an implementation detail. It might change in the future without further notice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The summarized description below is an implementation detail. It may change in the future without notice.
```

> >
> > Also please bear in mind that some details are not mentioned here to keep the algorithm description short and terse.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this, I think it's implied by the above.
```suggestion
```

> The `BackoffType` property's data type is a [`DelayBackOffType`](xref:Polly.DelayBackOffType) enum. This controls primarily how the calculation is done.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BackoffType` property's data type is the [`DelayBackOffType`](xref:Polly.DelayBackOffType) enumeration. This primarily controls how the calculation is done.
```

### Constant

> One might think that here we only put into the account the `Delay` property. In reality all above listed properties are used.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a fan of the style of wording here - it reads weird here to be making assertions about what the reader might think, rather than just explaining it.

Author: ```suggestion
Even though the `Constant` name could imply that only the `Delay` property is used, in reality all the above listed properties are used.
```

Is it better?

Step 1: Calculating the base delay:

- If `UseJitter` is set to `false` and `Delay` is specified then `Delay` will be used.
- If `UseJitter` is set to `true` and `Delay` is specified then a random value is added to the `Delay`.

>   - The random value is between [-25% of `Delay`, +25% of `Delay`].

Reviewer 2: Looks weird to me to use the word between but then use range notation in the middle of prose.

Author: ```suggestion
  - The random value is between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`.
```
Is it better?

There are many properties that may contribute to this calculation:

- `BackoffType`: It specifies which calculation algorithm should run.
- `Delay`: If only this one is specified then it will be used as is. If others are defined as well then this will be used as a _base delay_.
- `DelayGenerator`: If specified then it will overwrite other properties based calculation. **Except** if it returns a negative `TimeSpan` where the other properties based calculation is used.
- `MaxDelay`: If specified then it caps the delay if the calculated one is greater than this value. **Except** if `DelayGenerator` is used where no capping is applied.

> - `UseJitter`: If enabled then it adds a random value between between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`. **Except** if `BackoffType` is set to `Exponential` where jitter is always used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `BackoffType`: Specifies which calculation algorithm should run.
- `Delay`: If only this property is specified then it will be used as-is. If others are also specified then this will be used as a _base delay_.
- `DelayGenerator`: If specified, will override other property-based calculations, **except** if it returns a negative `TimeSpan`, in which case the other property-based calculations are used.
- `MaxDelay`: If specified, caps the delay if the calculated delay is greater than this value, **except** if `DelayGenerator` is used, where no capping is applied.
- `UseJitter`: If enabled, then adds a random value between between -25% of `Delay` and +25% of `Delay`, **except** if `BackoffType` is `Exponential`, where jitter is always used.
```

### Linear

This algorithm increases the delays for every attempt in a linear fashion if no jitter is used.

Step 1: Calculating the base delay:

- If `UseJitter` is set to `false` and `Delay` is specified then `Delay` multiplied by the actual attempt number will be used.
- If `UseJitter` is set to `true` and `Delay` is specified then a random value is added to the `Delay` multiplied by the actual attempt number.

>   - The random value is between -25% of the newly calculated `Delay` and +25% of the newly calculated `Delay`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The random value is between -25% and +25% of the newly calculated `Delay`.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > Because the jitter calculation is based on the newly calculated delay that's why the new delay could be smaller than the previous one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Because the jitter calculation is based on the newly calculated delay, the new delay could be less than the previous value.
```

- If `UseJitter` is set to `false` and `Delay` is specified then `Delay` multiplied by the actual attempt number will be used.
- If `UseJitter` is set to `true` and `Delay` is specified then a random value is added to the `Delay` multiplied by the actual attempt number.
  - The random value is between -25% and +25% of the newly calculated `Delay`.

> [!NOTE]
> Because the jitter calculation is based on the newly calculated delay, the new delay could be less than the previous value.

Step 2 and 3 are the same as for the Constant algorithm.

### Exponential

This algorithm increases the delays for every attempt in an exponential fashion if no jitter is used.

> - If `UseJitter` is set to `false` and `Delay` is specified then squaring actual attempt number multiplied by the `Delay` will be used.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add something like `attempt^2 * delay` to these bits of text to make the meaning a bit clearer in addition to the text?

> - If `UseJitter` is set to `true` and the `Delay` is specified then a `DecorrelatedJitterBackoffV2` formula (based on the [Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry](https://github.com/Polly-Contrib/Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry)) will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If `UseJitter` is set to `true` and the `Delay` is specified then a `DecorrelatedJitterBackoffV2` formula (based on [Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry](https://github.com/Polly-Contrib/Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry)) will be used.
```
